Recording Requested By:
Humboldt Land Title

When recorded, mail to:
Commerce Home Mortgage, LLC

Attn: Final Document Department 2020-0008 1 9

2300 Contra Costa Blvd, Suite 275
Recorded - Official Records

Pleasant Hill, CA 94523 Humboldt Count i i
(949) 514-6030 Kelly E. Sanders, Recorden
Recorded by: HUMBOLDT LAND TITLE Coa

   
    
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
  

Pages: 15

Recording Fee: ¢
Tax Fee: $0

Clerk: kt Totz
Jan 16, 20204

alts tete

 

 

 

Document Date of Instrument: January 13, 2020 O

Property Address: 142 Sole St
Eureka, CA 95503

e.which this page is affixed and made a part of is
gHomes & Jobs Act (SB2-2017) (GC 27388.1).

 
     

THIS PAGE IS ADDED TO PROVIDE DECLARATION OF BUILDING
HOMES & JOBS ACT (SB2-2017) FEE EXEMPTION
ADDITIONAL RECORDING FEE APPLIES

Ellie Mae, Inc. CADCLEX 1217
CADCLEX (CLS)DOC #2020-000819 Page 2 of 15

When recorded, mail to:
Commerce Home Mortgage, LLC
Attn: Final Document Department
2300 Contra Costa Blvd, Suite 275
Pleasant Hill, CA 94523

(949) 514-6030

Title Order No.: 169456
Escrow No.: 169456
LOAN #: 1600002205

 

MIN 1002640-6000045842-5
MERS PHONE #: 1-888-679-6377

 
   
   

DEFINITIONS

Words used in multiple sections of this doeymenta fined below and other words are defined in Sections 3, 11, 13, 18,
sage sed-in-this document are also provided in Section 16.

(A) “Security Instrument” means this docun hs dated January 13, 2020, together with all

Riders to this document.

(B) “Borrower” is DAVID HO

COMMUNITY PROPERTY WIT

LY C HONIGSCHMIDT HUSBAND AND WIFE AS
ORSHIP.

organized and existing under the laws of
Lender's address is 16845 Von Karman Avenue,

 

CALIFORNIA -— Single Family —- Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac UNIFORM INSTRUMENT Form 3005 1/01
Ellie Mae, Inc. Page 1 of 13 : CAEDEDL 0219
CAEDEDL (CLS)DOC #2020-000819 Page 3 of 15

, LOAN #: 16000 5
(D) “Trustee” is Humboldt Land Title Co.

 
  

(E) “MERS” is Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc. MERS is a separate corporation that is a ing sta a
nominee for Lender and Lender’s successors and assigns. MERS is the beneficiary under this Secirity Inst
MERS is organized and existing under the laws of Delaware, and has an address and telephone nu
Flint, MI 48501-2026, tel. (888) 679-MERS.
(F) “Note” means the promissory note signed by Borrower and dated January 13, 2020.

D NO

    

states that Borrower owes Lender TWO HUNDRED FORTY SEVEN THOUSAND A

RRR RE HKERRKEKRREKRRARHRHKKKRKKRKRKRERHKHRKKRRAKKRRHKKRRKRRRKRKRK KRK Do rs (U.S,

  
   
 

 

47,000.00

plus interest. Borrower has promised to pay this debt in regular Periodic Payments ard to pay the debt in full not later than
February 1, 2050.

(G) “Property” means the property that is described below under the heading “
(H) “Loan” means the debt evidenced by the Note, plus interest, any prepayment
Note, and all sums due under this Security Instrument, plus interest.

() “Riders” means all Riders to this Security Instrument that are executed by Borrowe x following Riders are to be

© Property.”
harges due under the

   
 
 

executed by Borrower [check box as applicable]:
L] Adjustable Rate Rider Condominium Rider [] Second Home Rider
(_] Balloon Rider [] Planned Unit Development Ride Other(s) [specify]
{_] 1-4 Family Rider (_] Biweekly Payment Rider
LJ VA. Rider

S

e and\ocalstatutes, regulations, ordinances and admin-
plicable final, non-appealable judicial opinions.

   
  
  
 
 
 
 

(J) “Applicable Law” means all controlling applicable federa
istrative rules and orders (that have the effect of law) as well asa
(K) “Community Association Dues, Fees, and Asses € ;
are imposed on Borrower or the Property by a condomihi slation, homéowners association or similar organization.
(L) “Electronic Funds Transfer” means any, transfe
similar paper instrument, which is initiat

 
  
 
   

and automated clearinghouse tra
(M) “Escrow Items” means tho
(N) “Miscellaneous Proceeds”
party (other than insurance proceé
the Property; (ii) condemnation or
(iv) misrepresentations of, or omissions as-to, thé’value and/or condition of the Property.
(0) “Mortgage Insurance” mez

(P) “Periodic Payment”

 
    
  
    
    
  
 
 
  
 
 

sation, settlement, award of damages, or proceeds paid by any third
pai under tr e coverages described in Section 5) for: (i) damage to, or destruction of,

he reg sQularly scheduled amount due for (i) principal and interest under the Note, plus

Security Instrument.

(Q) “RESPA’ means the RealEstate Settlement Procedures Act (12 U.S.C. §2601 et seq.) and its implementing regulation,
as they might be amended from time to time, or any additional or successor legislation

@ subject matter. As used in this Security Instrument, “RESPA’ refers to all requirements

in regard to a “federally related mortgage loan” even if the Loan does not qualify as a

eloan” under RESPA.

t of Borrower” means any party that has taken title to the Property, whether or not that party

ower’s Obligations under the Note and/or this Security Instrument.

is Security Instrument is MERS (solely as nominee for Lender and Lender's successors and assigns)
ccessorsand assigns of MERS. This Security Instrument secures to Lender: (i) the repayment of the Loan, and

CALIFORNIA - Single Family —- Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac UNIFORM INSTRUMENT Form 3005 1/01
Ellie Mae, inc. Page 2 of 13 CAEDEDL 0219
CAEDEDL (CLS)DOC #2020-000819 Page 4 of 15

 
 
  
 

LOAN #: 16000

all renewals, extensions and modifications of the Note; and (li) the performance of Borrower's covenants and agreements
under this Security Instrument and the Note. For this purpose, Borrower irrevocably grants and conveys to Trustee, In trust,
with power of sale, the following described property located in the County [Type of Recordirig Jurisdiction]
of Humboldt [Name of Recording Jurisdiction]:

SEE LEGAL DESCRIPTION ATTACHED HERETO AND MADE A PART HEREOF AS "EXHIBIT A".
APN #: 305-073-066-000

 

which currently has the address of 142 Sole St, Eureka,

  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
   

[Street] [City]
California 96503 (“Property Address’):
{Zip Code}

TOGETHER WITH all the improvements now or herbatte e roperty, and all easements, appurtenances,
and fixtures now or hereafter a part of the property. Ail replacements and additions shall also be covered by this Security
Instrument. All of the foregoing Is referred to in this Security Instru s the “Property.’ Borrower understands and agrees
that MERS holds only legal title to the interests granted ay Bor is Security Instrument, but, if necessary to comply
with law or custom, MERS (as nominee for Lender and fessors and assigns) has the right: to exercise any or
all of those interests, including, but not limitee i 1g@ and sell the Property; and to take any action required

of Lender including, but not limited to, releas ecurity Instrument.

BORROWER COVENANTS that B is la eised of the estate hereby conveyed and has the right to grant
and convey the Property and that the-P
and will defend generally the title 6 against all claims and demands, subject to any encumbrances of record.

THIS SECURITY INSTRUME?
varlations by jurisdiction to constitute’ rity instrument covering real property.

UNIFORM COVENANT: ender covenant and agree as follows

1. Payment of Princi erest, Escrow Items, Prepayment Charges, and Late Charges. Borrower shall pay
when due the principal of, a on, the debt evidenced by the Note and any prepayment charges and late charges
due under the Note. Borrowekshal pay funds for Escrow Items pursuant to Section 3. Payments due under the Note

and this Security Instrumentsha made in U.S. currency. However, if any check or other instrument received by Lender
ls Security Instrument is returned to Lender unpaid, Lender may require that any or all
e Note and this Security Instrument be made in one or more of the following forms, as
oney order; (c) certified check, bank check, treasurer's check or cashier’s check, provided
upon an institution whose deposits are insured by a federal agency, instrumentality, or entity; or
ds Trans

  

CALIFORNIA ~ Single Family — Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac UNIFORM INSTRUMENT ‘Form 3005 1/01
Ellie Mae, Inc. Page 3 of 13 CAEDEDL 0219
: CAEDEDL (CLS)DOC #2020-000819 Page 5 of 15

need not pay interest on unapplied funds. Lender may hold such unapplied funds until Borrower makes pay!
the Loan current. If Borrower does not do sO within a reasonable period of time, Lender shall either apply.

Note immediately prior to foreclosure. No offset or claim which Borrower might have now or in the futuré
shall relieve Borrower from making payments due under the Note and this Security instrument or performi
and agreements secured by this Security Instrument.

2. Application of Payments or Proceeds. Except as otherwise described in this
and applied by Lender shall be applied in the following order of priority: (a) interest due
under the Note; (c) amounts due under Section 3. Such payments shall be applied to’e
in which it became due. Any remaining amounts shall be applied first to late charg

until the Note is paid in full, a sum (the “Funds”) to provide for paym
other items which can attain priority over this Security Instr
payments or ground rents on the Property, if any; (c) premi

and (d) Mortgage Insurance premiums, if any, or any sums pa}

ems at any time. Any such waiver may only be in writing.

In the event of such waiver, Borrower sha pay dirac hen and where payable, the amounts due for any Escrow Items
for which payment of Funds has been wa ; lf Lender requires, shall furnish to Lender receipts evidencing
such payment within such time périod’as Le der require. Borrower's obligation to make such payments and to provide
receipts shall for all purposes be\ dee ant and agreement contained In this Security Instrument, as the
phrase “covenant and agreement’ 9. If Borrower is obligated to pay Escrow Items directly, pursuant to a

walver, and Borrower falls to pay t ran Escrow Item, Lender may exercise its rights under Section 9 and

all-Escrow t any time by a notice given in accordance with Section 15 and, upon such
e all Funds, and in such amounts, that are then required under this Section 3.

 
   
 
   
      
 

Lender may, at any time} colle

PA, and (b)-netto exceed the maximum amount a lender can require under RESPA. Lender shall
1g dueon the basis of current data and reasonable estimates of expenditures of future Escrow

ith Applicable Law.

institution whose deposits are insured by a federal agency, instrumentality, or entity

S row Items no later than the time specified under RESPA. Lender shall not charge Borrower

anplyi é Funds, annually analyzing the escrow account, or verifying the Escrow Items, unless Lender

Borrower interest on the Funds and Applicable Law permits Lender to make such a charge. Unless an agreement is

made in writing or Applicable Law requires interest to be paid on the Funds, Lender shall not be required to pay Borrower

any interestor earnings on the Funds. Borrower and Lender can agree in writing, however, that interest shall be paid on
S shall give to Borrower, without charge, an annual accounting of the Funds as required by RESPA.

CALIFORNIA - Single Family - Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac UNIFORM INSTRUMENT — Form 3005 1/01
Ellie Mae, Inc. Page 4 of 13 CAEDEDL 0219
CAEDEDL (CLS)DOC #2020-000819 Page 6 of 15

 
 
  
 

LOAN #: 16000
If there is a surplus of Funds held in escrow, as defined under RESPA, Lender shall account to Borrower for th ess
funds in accordance with RESPA. If there is a shortage of Funds held in escrow, as defined under RESPA, Lender shai
notify Borrower as required by RESPA, and Borrower shall pay to Lender the amount necessary to make up the shortage
in accordance with RESPA, but in no more than 12 monthly payments. If there Is a deficiency of Funds heldiin escrow, a
defined under RESPA, Lender shall notify Borrower as required by RESPA, and Borrower shall pay to Lernider‘the amoun
necessary to make up the deficiency in accordance with RESPA, but in no more than 12 monthly payments:
Upon payment in full of all sums secured by this Security Instrument, Lender shall promptly refund-to_Borrowerany
Funds held by Lender.
4. Charges; Liens. Borrower shail pay all taxes, assessments, charges, fines, one impositi

  
 
 

    
 
  

Property which can attain priority over this Security Instrument, leasehold payments or ground
any, and Community Association Dues, Fees, and Assessments, If any. To the exten
Borrower shall pay them in the manner provided in Section 3.

Borrower shall promptly discharge any lien which has priority over this Security Instrument unless
in writing to the payment of the obligation secured by the lien in a manner acceptablé.to Lender, bu only so long as Bor
rower is performing such agreement; (b) contests the lien in good falth by, or defends against enfoféement of the lien in,
legal proceedings which in Lender's opinion operate to prevent the enforcement ofthe lien whilé those proceedings are
pending, but only until such proceedings are concluded; or (c) secures from the holder o ieran agreement satisfactory
mines that any part of the Property Is subject to
a lien which can attain priority over this Security Instrument, Lender may.give Borrower a notice identifying the lien. Within
10 days of the date on which that notice is given, Borrower shall satisfy the tien of take one or more of the actions set forth

  
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
  

by Lender in connection with this Loan.

5. Property Insurance. Borrower shall keep the
insured against loss by fire, hazards included within the t “e
limited to, earthquakes and floods, for which Lender require

tences can change during the term of the Loan. The ins a oviding the insurance shall be chosen by Borrower
subject to Lender's right to disapprove Borrower's choice, which fight’shall not be exercised unreasonably, Lender may
require Borrower to pay, in connection with elther: (a) a/one-time charge for flood zone determination, certifica-
tion and tracking services; or (b) a one-time‘charge ¢ determination and certification services and subsequent

Borrower shall also be responsible for t
in connection with the review of an

S imposed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
resulting from an objection by Borrower.

igation to purchase any particular type or amount of coverage. There-
ight not protect Borrower, Borrower's equity in the Property, or the
of liability and might provide greater or lesser coverage than was previ-
st of the Insurance coverage so obtained might significantly exceed the

fore, such coverage shall cover Lender,
contents of the Property, against any ti
ously in effect. Borrower acknowledg

is Security Instrument. These amounts shall bear interest at the Note rate from the
a e, with such interest, upon notice from Lender to Borrower requesting payment.

All insurance policies required by-Lender and renewals of such policies shall be subject to Lender's right to disapprove
such policies, shall include-a standard mortgage clause, and shall name Lender as mortgagee and/or as an additional
loss payee and Borrowe agrees to generally assign rights to insurance proceeds to the holder of the Note up to the
an balance. Lender shall have the right to hold the policles and renewal certificates. If Lender

give to Lender all receipts of paid premiums and renewal notices. If Borrower obtains any
not otherwise required by Lender, for damage to, or destruction of, the Property, such policy
ettgage clause and shall name Lender as mortgagee and/or as an additional loss payee and
S to generally assign rights to insurance proceeds to the holder of the Note up to the amount of the

  
 
 
   

CALIFORNIA — Single Family - Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac UNIFORM INSTRUMENT Form 3005 1/01

Ellie Mae, Inc. Page 5 of 13 CAEDEDL 0219
CAEDEDL (CLS)DOC #2020-000819 Page 7 of 15

whether or not the underlying insurance was required by Lender, shall be applied to restoration or repair of the Property, if
the restoration or repair is economically feasible and Lender's security is not lessened. During such repair and restoration
period, Lender shall have the right to hold such insurance proceeds until Lender has had an opportunity to jnspect'such
Property to ensure the work has been completed to Lender's satisfaction, provided that such inspection shallb rege

 
    
 
 

promptly. Lender may disburse proceeds for the repairs and restoration in a single payment or in a serles’of prog
ments as the work is completed. Unless an agreement is made in writing or Applicable Law requires intérest.to bea
such insurance proceeds, Lender shall not be required to pay Borrower any Interest or earnings on such proceeds.
public adjusters, or other third parties, retained by Borrower shall not be paid out of the Insurance proceeds and sha
sole obligation of Borrower. If the restoration or repair is not economically feasible or Le
the insurance proceeds shall be applied to the sums secured by this Security Instrumen

 
 
  
 

a claim, then Lender may negotiate and settle the claim. The 30-day period will begin when the notice is given. In either
event, or if Lender acquires the Property under Section 22 or otherwise, Borrower hereby-assigns to Lender (a) Borrower's

  
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
  
  

ment, and (b) any other of Borrower's rights (other than the right to any refund of unearned-prémiums paid by Borrower)
under all insurance policies covering the Property, insofar as such rights\are applicable to the coverage of the Property.
Lender may use the insurance proceeds either to repair or restore the Rropeity or to pay amounts unpaid under the Note
or this Security Instrument, whether or not then due.

60 days after the execution of this Security Instrument and shall coriti py the Property as Borrower's principal

residence for at least one year after the date of occupancy, unless 6 agrees in writing, which consent shall
not be unreasonably withheld, or unless extenuating en ich are beyond Borrower's control.

7% ~©Preservation, Maintenance and Protection o 3 ctions. Borrower shall not destroy, damage
or impair the Property, allow the Property to deteriorate or co aste‘on the Property. Whether or not Borrower Is resid-

E t the Property from deteriorating or decreasing
in value due to its condition. Unless it is determined p t to Section 5 that repair or restoration is not economically
feasible, Borrower shall promptly repair the Property if damaged to avoid further deterioration or damage. If insurance or
condemnation proceeds are paid in connection with damage to, or the taking of, the Property, Borrower shall be respon-

pon and inspections of the Property. If it has reasonable cause,
the Property. Lender shall give Borrower notice at the time of or
asonable cause.

Lender or its agent may maké
Lender may inspect the interior «
prior to such an interior inspectio

8. Borrower’s Loan Applicé ‘ ower Shall be in default if, during the Loan application process, Borrower or
any persons or entities acting a Borrower or with Borrower's knowledge or consent gave materially false,
misleading, or inaccurate info | tements to Lender (or failed to provide Lender with material information) in
connection with the Loan. Mate epresentations include, but are not limited to, representations concerning Borrower's
occupancy of the Property a eee principal residence.

9. Protection of Le : est in the Property and Rights Under this Security Instrument. If (a) Borrower

fails to perform the covenants and-agreements contained in this Security Instrument, (b) there is a legal proceeding that

a é interest in the Property and/or rights under this Security Instrument (such as a proceeding
obate for condemnation or forfeiture, for enforcement of a lien which may attain priority over this Security
ntor to enforce laws of regulations), or (c) Borrower has abandoned the Property, then Lender may do and pay for
asonable‘er appropriate to protect Lender’s interest in the Property and rights under this Security Instrument,
ing and/orassessing the value of the Property, and securing and/or repairing the Property. Lender's actions
nclude, but are,not limited to: (a) paying any sums secured by a lien which has priority over this Security Instrument;
acing in court; and (c) paying reasonable attorneys’ fees to protect its interest in the Property and/or rights under
nstrument, including its secured position in a bankruptcy proceeding. Securing the Property includes, but is
not limited to, entering the Property to make repairs, change locks, replace or board up doors and windows, drain water

  
   
    
 

 

CALIFORNIA — Single Family —- Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac UNIFORM INSTRUMENT Form 30085 1/01

Ellie Mae, Inc. Page 6 of 13 CAEDEDL 0219
CAEDEDL (CLS)DOC #2020-000819 Page 8 of 15

 
 
  

; LOAN #: 16000

from pipes, eliminate building or other code violations or dangerous conditions, and have utilities turned on or off. ough
Lender may take action under this Section 9, Lender does not have to do so and is not under any duty or obligation to do
so. It is agreed that Lender incurs no liability for not taking any or all actions authorized under this Section 9.

Any amounts disbursed by Lender under this Section 9 shall become additional debt of Borrower secured by this Security
Instrument. These amounts shall bear interest at the Note rate from the date of disbursement and shall be pat
such interest, upon notice from Lender to Borrower requesting payment.

If this Security Instrument is on a leasehold, Borrower shall comply with alll the provisions of the
hot surrender the leasehold estate and interests herein conveyed or terminate or cancel the groundtea
not, without the express written consent of Lender, alter or amend the ground lease. If
Property, the leasehold and the fee title shall not merge unless Lender agrees to the :

10. Mortgage Insurance. If Lender required Mortgage Insurance as a condition ower shall pay
the premiums required to maintain the Mortgage Insurance in effect. If, for any te
required by Lender ceases to be available from the mortgage Insurer that previous
was required to make separately designated payments toward the premiums for
the premiums required to obtain coverage substantially equivalent to the Mortgag
substantially equivalent to the cost to Borrower of the Mortgage Insurance previously. in effect, trom’an alternate mortgage
insurer selected by Lender. If substantially equivalent Mortgage Insurance coverage is not-availa
to pay to Lender the amount of the separately designated payments thatwere due when the insurance coverage ceased
to be in effect. Lender will accept, use and retain these payments 4
Insurance. Such loss reserve shall be non-refundable, notwithstanding the-fact that the Loan is ultimately paid in full, and
Lender shall not be required to pay Borrower any interest or earnings on suc
loss reserve payments if Mortgage Insurance coverage (in the amo r the period that Lender requires) provided by

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

  

    
 
  
 
 
   

y

remiums for Mortgage Insurance, Borrower
shall pay the premiums required to maintain Mortgage Insurance.i r to provide a non-refundable loss reserve,

  
 
 
 
  
   
    
 
   
   
 
   
  
 

d inthe Note

Borrower's obligation to pay interest at the rate provide ;
jases the Note) for certain losses it may incur If Borrower

Mortgage Insurance relmburses Lende

ments with other parties that share or
that are satisfactory to the mortga
require the mortgage insurer to

party (or parties) to these agreements. These agreements may
ing any source of funds that the mortgage insurer may have avallable

As a result of these agreeme
any affiliate of any of the foregoing;

chaser of the Note, another insurer, any reinsurer, any other entity, or
ive (difectly or indirectly) amounts that derive from (or might be characterized

ent provides that an affiliate of Lender takes a share of the insurer’s risk in exchange
insurer, the arrangement Is often termed “captive reinsurance.’ Further:
affect the amounts that Borrower has agreed to pay for Mortgage Insurance,
or any other terms of the Lo suctyagreements will not increase the amount Borrower will owe for Mortgage
e- Borrower to any refund.

agree s.will not affect the rights Borrower has — if any — with respect to the Mortgage Insur-
ance undér the Homeowne otection Act of 1998 or any other law. These rights may include the right to receive
isclosures, to request and obtain cancellation of the Mortgage Insurance, to have the Mortgage Insurance
terminated automatically, and/or to receive a refund of any Mortgage Insurance premiums that were unearned at
oti ation or termination.

 
 
 
 
  
   

Ss

 

operty is/damaged, such Miscellaneous Proceeds shall be applied to restoration or repair of the Property, if
the restoration or repair is economically feasible and Lender's security is not lessened. During such repair and restoration

CALIFORNIA — Single Family — Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac UNIFORM INSTRUMENT Form 3005 1/01
Ellle Mae, Inc. Page 7 of 13 CAEDEDL 0219
CAEDEDL (CLS)DOC #2020-000819 Page 9 of 15

 
 
  
  
 
   
   
 
 
  

LOAN #: 16000
period, Lender shall have the right to hold such Miscellaneous Proceeds until Lender has had an opportunity to insp uch
Property to ensure the work has been completed to Lender's satisfaction, provided that such inspection shall be undertaken
promptly. Lender may pay for the repairs and restoration in a single disbursement or in a series of progress
work is completed. Unless an agreement is made in writing or Applicable Law requires interest to be paid
laneous Proceeds, Lender shall not be required to pay Borrower any interest or earnings on such Miscella
If the restoration or repair is not economically feasible or Lender's security would be lessened, the Miscellarie
shall be applied to the sums secured by this Security Instrument, whether or not then due, with the exc
Borrower. Such Miscellaneous Proceeds shall be applied in the order provided for in Section 2.
In the event of a total taking, destruction, or loss in value of the Property, the Miscellaneous Pfot
to the sums secured by this Security Instrument, whether or not then due, with the exces
In the event of a partial taking, destruction, or loss in value of the Property in whic
erty immediately before the partial taking, destruction, or loss in value is equal to ¢r/greater than the amount of the sums
secured by this Security Instrument Immediately before the partial taking, destruction, or loss in valle, unless Borrower
and Lender otherwise agree in writing, the sums secured by this Security Instrument shall be reduced by the amount of the
Miscellaneous Proceeds multiplied by the following fraction: (a) the total amount of the 8u
the partial taking, destruction, or loss in value divided by (b) the fair market value ofthe Proper
partial taking, destruction, or loss in value. Any balance shall be paid to
In the event of a partial taking, destruction, or loss in value of the Rroperty in which the fair market value of the

   

   
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
    
   

immediately before the partial taking, destruction, or loss in value, unless Borrower and Lender otherwise agree in writing,
the Miscellaneous Proceeds shall be applied to the sums secured by this Security ‘Ins
are then due.
If the Property is abandoned by Borrower, or if, after notice by
in the next sentence) offers to make an award to settle
30 days after the date the notice is given, Lender is authori
restoration or repair of the Property or to the sums secured b} Instrument, whether or not then due. “Opposing
Party” means the third party that owes Borrower Miscellaneou ds.or the party against whom Borrower has a right
of action in regard to Miscellaneous Proceeds.
Borrower shall be in default if any action or proceddi ¢
could result in forfeiture of the Property or othernm al impairment of Lender's interest in the Property or rights under this

a ruling that, in Lender’s judgment, precludes forfeiture of
the Property or other material impairme est in the Property or rights under this Security Instrument. The

proceeds of any award or claim forda

provided for in Section 2.
12. Borrower Not Released;
tion of amortization of the sums

Lender Not a Waiver. Extension of the time for payment or modifica-
this Security Instrument granted by Lender to Borrower or any Successor in
elease the liability of Borrower or any Successors in Interest of Borrower. Lender
proceedings against any Successor in Interest of Borrower or to refuse to extend time
ization of the sums secured by this Security Instrument by reason of any demand
ccessors In Interest of Borrower. Any forbearance by Lender in exercising any
imitation, Lender's acceptance of payments from third persons, entities or Successors
ts less than the amount then due, shall not be a waiver of or preclude the exercise of

     
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
 

made by the original Borrowe
right or remedy including, wi

bility; Co-signers; Successors and Assigns Bound. Borrower covenants and agrees that
lity shall be joint and several. However, any Borrower who co-signs this Security Instrument
(a “co-signer’): (a) is co-signing this Security Instrument only to mortgage, grant and convey
tin the Property under the terms of this Security Instrument; (b) is not personally obligated to pay
his Security Instrument; and (c) agrees that Lender and any other Borrower can agree to extend,
@ any accommodations with regard to the terms of this Security Instrument or the Note without the

CALIFORNIA - Single Family — Fannie Mae/Freddle Mac UNIFORM INSTRUMENT Form 3005 1/01

Ellie Mae, Inc. Page 8 of 13 CAEDEDL 0219
CAEDEDL (CLS)DOC #2020-000819 Page 10 of 1

under this Security Instrument in writing, and Is approved by Lender, shall obtain all of Borrower's rights and benefits under
this Security Instrument. Borrower shall not be released from Borrower's obligations and liability under this Se €
ment unless Lender agrees to such release in writing. The covenants and agreements of this Security Instrume
(except as provided in Section 20) and benefit the successors and assigns of Lender.

14. Loan Charges. Lender may charge Borrower fees for services performed in connection with
for the purpose of protecting Lender's interest in the Property and rights under this Security Instrum
not limited to, attorneys’ fees, property inspection and valuation fees. In regard to any other fees,
authority in this Security Instrument to charge a specific fee to Borrower shall not be const
the charging of such fee. Lender may not charge fees that are expressly prohibited b
Applicable Law.

if the Loan is subject to a law which sets maximum loan charges, and that law is finally interpreted so that the
interest or other loan charges collected or to be collected In connection with the/Loan exceed the permitted limits, then:
(a) any such loan charge shall be reduced by the amount necessary to reduce the charge to the permitted limit; and
(b) any sums already collected from Borrower which exceeded permitted limits will be refunded to.
choose to make this refund by reducing the principal owed under the Note or by making a dire
a refund reduces principal, the reduction will be treated as a partial prepayment withotta payment charge (whether
or not a prepayment charge is provided for under the Note). Borrowér’s‘acceptance of any such refund made by direct
payment to Borrower will constitute a waiver of any right of action Borrowermight have arising out of such overcharge.

15. Notices. All notices given by Borrower or Lender in connection with this. Security Instrument must be in writing.

 
 
  
  

   
 
  
 
  
  
  
  

Any notice to Borrower in connection with this Security Instrument shall b ed to have been given to Borrower
when mailed by first class mail or when actually delivered to Borro ss if sent by other means. Notice to
any one Borrower shall constitute notice to all Borrowers unless Applic pressly requires otherwise. The notice

Borrower shall promptly notify Lender of Borrower's E gss,-tt|Lender specifies a procedure for reporting
Borrower's change of address, then Borrower shall only réport’a change of address through that specified procedure.

deemed to have been given to Lender unti cel ander. If any notice required by this Security Instrument
is also required under Applicable Law, theApplice ement will satisfy the corresponding requirement under

  
     
  
  
 
   
 

this Security Instrument.

16. Governing Law; Severability; Rules of uction. This Security Instrument shall be governed by federal
law and the law of the jurisdiction atty is located. All rights and obligations contained in this Security
Instrument are subject to any require imitations of Applicable Law. Applicable Law might explicitly or implicitly
allow the parties to agree by contractotit might_be silent, but such silence shall not be construed as a prohibition against
agreement by contract. In the eve any provision or clause of this Security Instrument or the Note conflicts with

Applicable Law, such conflict shalknot.affect.otherprovisions of this Security Instrument or the Note which can be given
effect without the conflicting provision.

 

yotds of the masculine gender shall mean and include corresponding neuter
b) words In the singular shall mean and include the plural and vice versa: and
(c) the word “may” gives sol ithout any obligation to take any action.

17. Borrower’s Co shall be given one copy of the Note and of this Security Instrument.

18. Transfer of the Property ora Beneficial Interest in Borrower. As used in this Section 18, “Interest in the Property”
sficial interest in the Property, Including, but not limited to, those beneficial interests transferred in

icial interest in Borrower is sold or transferred) without Lender's prior written consent, Lender may require

in full of all sums secured by this Security Instrument. However, this option shall not be exercised by
such exercise is prohibited by Applicable Law.

exercises this option, Lender shall give Borrower notice of acceleration. The notice shall provide a period of

$ from the date the notice is given in accordance with Section 15 within which Borrower must pay alll

CALIFORNIA — Single Family —- Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac UNIFORM INSTRUMENT Form 3008 1/01
Ellie Mae, Inc. Page 9 of 13 CAEDEDL 0219
CAEDEDL (CLS)

“hsDOC #2020-000819 Page 11 of 1

LOAN #: 16000

sums secured by this Security Instrument. If Borrower fails to pay these sums prior to the expiration of this period, er
may invoke any remedies permitted by this Security Instrument without further notice or demand on Borrower.

19. Borrower’s Right to Reinstate After Acceleration. If Borrower meets certain conditions, Borrowe
the right to have enforcement of this Security Instrument discontinued at any time prior to the earliest of: 3
before sale of the Property pursuant to any power of sale contained in this Security Instrument; (b ) such other period
as Applicable Law might specify for the termination of Borrower's right to reinstate; or (c) entry of a judg
this Security Instrument. Those conditions are that Borrower: (a) pays Lender all sums which then v
this Security Instrument and the Note as if no acceleration had occurred; (b) cures any default of a

   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

S

 

interest in the Property and rights under this Security Instrument; and (d) takes such action as Lender ma reasonably
require to assure that Lender's interest in the Property and rights under this Security Instrument, and Borrower’s obliga-
tlon to pay the sums secured by this Security Instrument, shall continue unchanged. Lender may re
pay such reinstatement sums and expenses in one or more of the following forms\as selected
(6) money order; (c) certified check, bank check, treasurer’s check or cashier's check, pt uch check Is drawn
upon an institution whose deposits are insured by a federal agency, instrumenta , of (d) Electronic Funds
Transfer. Upon reinstatement by Borrower, this Security Instrument and obligations Secured hereby shall remain fully
effective as if no acceleration had occurred. However, this right to ré e shall not apply in the case of acceleration
under Section 18.

20. Sale of Note; Change of Loan Servicer; Notice of Grievance. The a partial interest in the Note (together
with this Security Instrument) can be sold one or more times without_pri [ce to-Borrower. A sale might result in a

  
   
 
   
 

y Lender: (a) cash;

     
    
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
     
  
  
   
 
  

Instrument and performs other mortgage loan servicing obligations this Security Instrument, and Applicable
Law. There also might be one or more changes of the Loan Servicer unre a sale of the Note. If there is a change
of the Loan Servicer, Borrower will be given written notice-oft will state the name and address of the new
Loan Servicer, the address to which payments should be

transferred to a successor Loan Servicer and are not/a @ Note purchaser unless otherwise provided by the
Note purchaser.

Neither Borrower nor Lender may coynme jain, or be joined to any judicial action (as either an individual litigant or
the member of a class) that arises from tf S ons pursuant to this Security Instrument or that alleges that
the other party has breached any provision y ed by reason of, this Security Instrument, until such Borrower

toa reasonable period after the giving of such notice to take corrective
action. If Applicable Law providesia timé,period which must elapse before certain action can be taken, that time period will
be deemed to be reasonable for pusposés.of this par
Borrower pursuant to Section 22 andthe
to satisfy the notice and opportuni tive action provisions of this Section 20.

21. Hazardous Substanée : is Section 21: (a) “Hazardous Substances” are those substances defined
as toxic or hazardous substances, pollutants, or wastes by Environmental Law and the following substances: gasoline,

kerosene, other flammable or toxic petroleum products, toxic pesticides and herbicides, volatile solvents, materials con-

sponse-action, remedial action, or removal action, as defined in Environmental Law; and {d) an
"means. condition that can cause, contribute to, or otherwise trigger an Environmental Cleanup.

S permit the presence, use, disposal, storage, or release of any Hazardous Substances, or
dous Substances, on or in the Property, Borrower shall not do, nor allow anyone else to do,
efty (a) that is in violation of any Environmental Law, (b) which creates an Environmental Condi-
eo the presence, use, or release of a Hazardous Substance, creates a condition that adversely affects
C erty. The preceding two sentences shail not apply to the presence, use, or storage on the Property of

ities of Hazardous Substances that are generally recognized to be appropriate to normal residential uses and
he Property (including, but not limited to, hazardous substances In consumer products).

     
   
  

CALIFORNIA — Single Family - Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac UNIFORM INSTRUMENT Form 3005 1/01
Ellie Mae, Inc. Page 10 of 13 CAEDEDL 0219
CAEDEDL (CLS)
Caen!
aadDOC #2020-000819 Page 12 of 1

rower learns, or is notified by any governmental or regulatory authority, or any private party, that any ter
remediation of any Hazardous Substance affecting the Property is necessary, Borrower shall promptly ta

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 

this Section 22, including, but not limited to, rPasonable attorne osts of title evidence.

If Lender invokes the power of sale, Lender sh e f Stee to execute a written notice of the
occurrence of an event of default and of Lender’s e se the Property to be sold. Trustee shall cause
this notice to be recorded in each county in which any C 2 perty is located. Lender or Trustee shall
mail copies of the notice as prescribed by Applicable ower and to the other persons prescribed by
Applicable Law. Trustee shall give public notice of ale to)the persons and in the manner prescribed by Applicable
Law. After the time required by Applicable Law, Ti
public auction to the highest bidder at t
in one or more parcels and in any order T

 
  
   
  

" the sale in the following order: (a) to all expenses of the sale,
including, but not limited to, reasonak ee’s and attorneys’ fees; (b) to all sums secured by this Security
instrument; and (c) any excess tothe person or persons legally entitled to it.

23. Reconveyance. Upon pe s secured by this Security Instrument, Lender shall request Trustee to

reconvey the Property and shalt-surrender this-Security Instrument and all notes evidencing debt secured by this Security
co vey the Property without warranty to the person or persons legally entitled to it.
or pe

     
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 

Instrument to Trustee. Trust
Lender may charge such petrsonc 5
third party (such as the Trustes) for Services rendered and the charging of the fee is permitted under Applicable Law. If the
fee charged does not exceed.the fee set by Applicable Law, the fee is conclusively presumed to be reasonable.

E r, at its option, may from time to time appoint a successor trustee to any Trustee
ent executed and acknowledged by Lender and recorded in the office of the Recorder
perty is located. The instrument shall contain the name of the original Lender, Trustee and
6 where this Security Instrument is recorded and the name and address of the successor
é of the Property, the successor trustee shall succeed to all the title, powers and duties conferred

substitution.
. Obligation Fee. Lender may collect a fee not to exceed the maximum amount permitted by Applicable
Law for furnishing the statement of obligation as provided by Section 2943 of the Civil Code of California.

CALIFORNIA - Single Family — Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac UNIFORM INSTRUMENT Form 3005 1/01
Eille Mae, Inc. Page 11 of 13 CAEDEDL 0219
CAEDEDL (CLS)DOC #2020-000819 Page 13 of 1

LOAN #: 16000
The undersigned Borrower requests that a copy of any Notice of Default and any Notice of Sale under this rity
instrument be mailed to Borrower at the address set forth above.

 
   
 
     
    
    
         

BY SIGNING BELOW, Borrower accepts and agrees to the terms and covenants contained in this Secu ri
and in any Rider executed by Borrower and recorded with it.

 
 

A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the ide
signed the document to which this certificate is attached, and n
document.

State of (AL iAat,
County of SaceamenzO C)

On Jaavnt/ ( YA, Coew , befo
(here insert name and title of the officer), personally’
HONIGSCHMIDT, who proved to me on the satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s)
istaoe scribed to the within instrument and ach edged to me that he/sh xecuted the same in his/
her/ authorized capacity(ies), a d th his/hekithols ignature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the

4 Yate
ed DAVID HONIGSCHMIDT AND HOLLY C

       
 

 
   
  
 

ary Public - California
Sacramento County

    

CALIFORNIA - Single Family - Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac UNIFORM INSTRUMENT Form 3005 1/01

Ellie Mae, Inc. Page 12 of 13 CAEDEDL 0219
ay CAEDEDL (CLS)

i

et

Aa osDOC #2020-000819 Page 14 of 1

LOAN #: 16000

Lender: Commerce Home Mortgage, LLC C
NMLS ID: 1839

Loan Originator: Faramarz Moeen-Zial

NMLS ID: 342090

SS
oS
ey

CALIFORNIA — Single Family ~ Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac UNIFORM INSTRUMENT Form 3005 1/01

Ellie Mae, Inc. Page 13 of 13 CAEDEDL 0219
CAEDEDL (CLS)DOC #2020-000819 Page 15 of 1

EXHIBIT “A”
LEGAL DESCRIPTION

   
 

THE LAND REFERRED TO HEREIN BELOW IS SITUATED IN THE UNINCORPORATED AR
IN THE COUNTY OF HUMBOLDT, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, AND IS DESCRIBED AS FOL

Lots 8, 9 and 10 in Block 5 of King Salmon Resort, as per Map recorded in Boo , Pag

Maps, in the Office of the County Recorder of said County.